[Music]
it's just gone 1300 hours GMT that's 300
p.m. in Gaza where Israel has carried
out another attack on the jabalia
refugee camp in less than 24 hours it's
the largest refugee camp in Gaza on
Tuesday more than a 100 Palestinian
civilians were killed there in an air
strike in the evening people were at the
scene searching through the rubble to
rescue family members there's been
widespread International condemnation
and Palestinian
themselves describing the attack as a
heartless War crime we'll have the
latest from Gaza in a moment but first
ased bag has this
report they haven't even finished
bearing the dead from Tuesday's attack
and Israel struck The jabalia Refuge
Camp
again misery upon misery death upon
death impunity upon impunity
Palestinians ask what is left to bom
here what will it take for it to stop it
was already a
graveyard in car unus they're buried
alive the rubel of what used to be their
homes is where they lie relatives look
on helplessly this is not a rescue
they're pulling out the dead for those
who survive there's no space left in
hospitals forced to stay in schools
because the hospitals are
overwhelmed where are the people
supposed to go so many have died May God
help them their situation is miserable
what can we do hospitals are overwhelmed
with the injured and the dead some
children others are elderly and
women some have a hope of a way out
Palestinian Jew Nationals and some of
those injured are being allowed to leave
through the Rafa Crossing to Egypt under
a kri mediated deal on Wednesday we
spend here 3 months without any minimum
parameter for the life no water no food
no shelter nothing nothing we open our
eyes on the dead people and we close our
our eyes on thead people but it's
nowhere near enough and so much more is
needed in Gaza fuel food water medical
supplies it's the fuel situation that is
most critical hospitals are running out
without fuel to operate generators the
hospitals cannot operate Palestinians
have been forced to adapt they're always
praying over the dead in Gaza a constant
stream of victims of those killed by
Israel it's the children who have
suffered most a childhood interrupted by
War forced to learn about death before
they can even experience life
Assad Big Al
jazer alzer's hany Mahmud joins us now
from the RAF Crossing so first of all
hany let's start with the latest strike
the second Israeli strike on the jabalia
refugee camp in 24 hours tell us about
the aftermath of
that yes Sammy well with them
uh 24 hours two Relentless deadly
attacks on a small refugee camp in
jabalia City uh as just a small densely
populated area and just within limited
number of ours two deadly attacks
leaving entire neighborhoods and entire
blocks completely uh in in in rubbles uh
the attacks came about a few two hours
ago when uh eight8 strikes eight air
strikes happening at one time bombs
falling on on at least eight home
residential homes close to each other
destroying all of them uh people were
not warned to leave those homes that
were still inside and nobody give them a
warning about the leaving or running for
their running for their life so what
happened a large number of people are
reported killed in those Relentless air
strikes uh we don't have the exact
number yet and we've been trying for the
past hour or so just trying to get our
hand on the exact figure of people who
have been killed in these air strike but
due to disabled communication uh and and
phone service were unable but I witness
in the area uh they told us that there
are the Deads are by the tens there
there are large number of injuries as
well that were rushed to the hospital
the Indonesian Hospital the only
remaining health facility right now
serving the northern part and whoever
remain from the residence in that area
it's important to mention the hospital
is still uh is already suffering from
lack of medical supplies and shortage
extreme shortage of fuel and and running
Beyond its capacity and looking into
just a few hours into the day and the
hospital will be uh completely out of
service according to a statement that
was issued yesterday and Han just take
us through
who was allowed out of Gaza
today well yes the the announcement came
as of the late hours of last night where
uh the Ministry of Health announced the
coordination uh for 81 wounded
Palestinians seriously and a critically
wounded Palestinians uh to move uh to
the egyp to the Egyptian side for median
and more advanced uh medical uh
intervention uh so far we've seen since
the early morning the early hours of
this morning ambulance ambulance is
coming from the central area of the G
strip namely the city of D
froma hospital and from nasar hospital
in the city of kanun and two more
hospitals from Gaza and the northern
part of shifa hospital and the
Indonesian Hospital uh they start moving
ambulance to uh the gate of the ra
Crossing where where Egyptian ambulance
were stationed at the Egyptian side
waiting for the transfer of these uh
wounded Palestinians uh so they can they
can take them to a field Hospital
established two days ago in The shik Zed
uh City on the Egyptian side uh in terms
of people who uh who hold dual
citizenship Palestinian with the dual
citizenship or uh foreign Nationals they
were also uh uh asked and a list of name
was published last night by the minister
of interior and I believe it was
coordinated with the Red Cross uh for uh
limited number of foreign National not
all foreign nationalities were informed
to leave only limited number we know the
American Nation holder of American
citizenship uh and British and Canadian
were excluded from this list and there
are talks uh that they might be able to
leave tomorrow or the day after uh after
tomorrow but earlier this hour the
scenes that the crossing very very
chaotic as everybody uh is trying to uh
just to run for his or her life at the
Crossing you know people who were not
listed uh their names were not listed
were very disappointed and felt really
sad that they could not make it out of
Gaza
today all right we'll leave it there
thanks so much hany Mahmud let's
continue this though with safat he's
joining us now from Gaza safat your
further
to the north than hany is so take us
first of all any update in jabali in
terms of how many people have perished
and have been wounded in this second
attack well until now we are unable to
get update from the Ministry of Health
since they are they also uh are they are
also finding difficulties in contacting
uh the the Indonesian Hospital for the
update as well but the the figure that
they are talking about tens of people
have been killed and injured in the
latest Israeli air strike on jabalia
refugee camp mainly in aluja
neighborhood uh we spoke to uh my
brother uh who who lives there he said
that he heard eight explosions fired by
the Israeli fighter jet on this
residential area and which is part of
the one of the most over populated areas
uh refugee camps uh in in the pales in
the Palestinian territories uh still uh
the Indonesian Hospital received all the
casualties that came or resulted from
this uh uh this attack on on jabalia
they have been appealing uh the they
have been launching appeals for uh for
sending the the injuries uh to Egypt and
also appealing the private uh the
private fuel stations to send them every
liter of fuel they could to to save uh
the lives of the injured people arriving
to the
hospital and
safwat what we saw today earlier in
jabalia was people were going through
the rubble of the first air strike
yesterday on
jabalia them you know trying to reach
some of the victims themselves becoming
the target of a second strike that's
targeting or that hit jabali refugee
camp and those
responders well well where you go and
you find people digging under the rubble
trying to to find um some object the
casualties of some of the dead people
who they believe they are stuck there
the municip it uh and the the teams are
deployed everywhere and try to take
especially in the plan that they can
reach but not the the places that under
the Israeli
fire wherever they go you you can find
people digging and trying to find if
there could if there are people alive
there or there are dead people they they
can bring under the reubel this is the
case because simply the ministry the
risky teams are
they don't have the the proper
capacities and capabilities to move
their machines either because lack of
machines or lack of fuels for operating
these machines so the people they try to
do that themselves and especially after
or following every Israeli air strike
this is the case that you wherever you
go and find the rubel you find people
trying to dig and to help if there is a
chance to find people alive there or
even to grab a a body of a people so
they they can't bury it all right thanks
so much that's s let's go to Alan Fisher
now he joins us live from occupied East
Jerusalem so we getting any Israeli
official reaction to this latest strike
on
jabalia nothing official yet and that
fits in with the pattern of what we saw
24 hours ago when it was several hours
after what happened in jabal we got news
from the Israelis that they said that
this was an operation targeting Hamas
operatives that they killed more than 50
of them and in particular they killed
one Commander someone that they believe
was involved in the planning of October
the 9th this is an ongoing military
operation so it's unlikely they'll say
anything yet for a couple of hours but
of course what we did get immediately
after what happened in jabalia was
International condemnation from a number
of countries including Jordan and Egypt
who called it unacceptable that Israel
knew that this was a refugee camp and
that by targeting Hamas there it would
inflict numerous casualties and we have
seen that in the figures that we've that
have been displayed not just on
Wednesday but today as well and Alan
Hamas has been saying seven civilian
captives were killed in that first
strike on jabalia Camp uh Camp how is
this impacting Israeli public opinion
well there are those in in Israel who
will tell you that that this war should
not go ahead that the priority should be
doing everything they possibly can to
release those that are being held
captive but here's the reality the
Israeli military right at the very start
said that they will go in they will
Target Hamas they will destroy Hamas and
if captives die during those operations
that is a consequence of this operation
so even though though there may be
growing International concern and we've
seen it from the United States who asked
Israel to delay the start of the ground
war it's been reported because they
wanted negotiations to continue to free
the captives we've seen it from other
countries who've said that that was a
priority it doesn't really matter Israel
has already accepted that there will be
uh people who are being held captive who
will die in this operation Hamas has
already said 50 have died add that to
the seven that they've talked about in
the last 24 hours and including two
Nationals so while there is a body uh of
protest against what is happening with
the war in Israel the government has
essentially said and the war cabinet has
essentially said that doesn't matter
their priority is making Israel safe and
if that means the death of those being
held captive they would like to see them
free but if it means the death of those
being held captive that is a consequence
of
War all right thanks so much Alan fiser